# Sensex surges over 1.8%, Nifty closes at 23,739

Written by Hitesh Vyas Mumbai | February 4, 2025 16:10 IST

3 min read

  * 
  * 
  * 
  * 
  * 

The NSE stocks that gained the most included Shriram Finance Ltd, Larsen &
Toubro Ltd, Bharat Electronics Ltd, IndusInd Bank and Adani Ports. (Express
file photo by Ganesh Shirsekar)

Domestic stock markets rose over 1.6 per cent on Tuesday tracking gains in
global markets after US President Donald Trump announced to **postpone
implementation of new tariffs** on Canada and Mexico by a month, allaying
fears of trade war.

The BSE’s 30-share Sensex surged 1.81 per cent, or 1,397.07 points up to end
at 78,583.81. The broader Nifty 50 gained 1.62 per cent, or 378.16 points, to
close at 23,739.25. During intra-day trades, the Sensex rose 1,471.85 points
and Nifty surged 401.7 points.

“Yesterday, the Indian market struggled to absorb the optimism generated by
the good union budget due to heightened geopolitical risks stemming from
‘Trump tariff war’. However, India could outperform in a weak global market,
and as a rebound has been triggered in the global sentiment, it has fuelled a
sharp surge in domestic equities,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit
Financial Services.

Story continues below this ad

The sell-off in the market on Monday followed US President Trump’s
announcement to impose 25 per cent tariffs on Canada and Mexico and 10 per
cent on China from February 4. The tariffs on Canada and Mexico have now been
postponed for a month.

“The Nifty has moved up following a falling wedge pattern retest, indicating
the possibility of a decent rally in the short term. Additionally, the index
has been sustaining above the critical 21EMA (exponential moving average) on
the daily timeframe,” said Rupak De, Senior Technical Analyst at LKP
Securities.

While the overall market sentiment remained positive, large-cap stocks were
the preferred choice, said Nair. BSE’s Largecap index rose 1.62 per cent on
Tuesday.

The NSE stocks that gained the most included Shriram Finance Ltd (5.65 per
cent), Larsen & Toubro Ltd (4.19 per cent), Bharat Electronics Ltd (3.68 per
cent), IndusInd Bank (3.68 per cent) and Adani Ports (3.54 per cent).

Story continues below this ad

## Market outlook

For the near term, the market will focus on the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI)
monetary policy announcement on February 7. Most of the economists expect the
RBI’s six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to cut the repo rate — the
rate at which the RBI lends to other banks — by 25 basis points (bps) in the
meeting.

On Tuesday, banking stocks rallied in anticipation of a rate cut in the RBI
policy. Nifty Bank rose nearly 2 per cent.

© The Indian Express Pvt Ltd

  * Tags:
  * NIFTY
  * Sensex
  * stock market

Latest Comment

Post Comment

Read Comments

Expand

