# Budget 2025 Speech Highlights: One crore more people will pay no tax, says Nirmala Sitharaman after increasing rebate to Rs 12 lakh; nothing for poor, says Opposition

  * 
  * 
  * 
  * 

By: Express Web Desk Updated: February 3, 2025 09:12 IST

Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents the Union Budget in Parliament on
Saturday.

**Budget 2025 FM Nirmala Sitharaman Speech Highlights:** After presenting the
Union Budget for the fiscal year 2025-26 in Lok Sabha on Saturday, Finance
Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said one crore more people will not pay tax.
Sitharaman made the remark in reference to the increase in tax rebate to Rs 12
lakh. In an interview with Doordarashan, Sitharaman said, “Slab rate
reductions apply to everyone, and extra rebate for some more people. Why do
this? The expectation is that the money saved by taxpayers will flow back into
the economy through consumption, savings, or investment.”

**‘Nothing for poor’** : Opposition leaders lashed out at the Centre over the
Budget saying there is nothing for the common people and poor. While several
leaders echoed the sentiment that the NDA-led government made a bid to woo the
tax paying middle class and Bihar electorate ahead of Assembly polls in the
state, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said the Centre has cut down
expenditure in key sectors like education, health, social welfare,
agriculture, rural and urban development, with schemes meant for SCs, STs,
OBCs and minorities “suffering cruellest cuts”

**Income Tax Slabs and Rates Budget 2025 LIVE: Watch Here**

**Here’s how the new income tax slabs look like now:**

**Income** | **Tax Rate**  
---|---  
Rs 0-4 lakh | Nil  
Rs 4-8 lakh | 5%  
Rs 8-12 lakh | 10%  
Rs 12-16 lakh | 15%  
Rs 16-20 lakh | 20%  
Rs 20-24 lakh | 25%  
Above Rs 24 lakh | 30%  
  
While Sitharaman announced new schemes for the agriculture sector including
the Prime Minister Dhan-Dhaanya Krishi Yojana, the overall allocation to the
Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare saw an increase of barely 4 per
cent — from Rs 1.32 lakh crore in the last budget to Rs 1.37 lakh crore. The
Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MG-NREGS) did not
see any change in its budget while the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin
(PMAY-G) was allocated the same amount as last year.

**Budget 2025 Highlights: Know Key Announcements Here**

© IE Online Media Services Pvt Ltd

Latest Comment

Post Comment

Read Comments

  * Tags:
  * Budget
  * Nirmala Sitharaman
  * Union Budget 2025

