# Concern UK's AI ambitions could lead to water shortages

![Image](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/1536/cpsprodpb/c53c/live/3c0a03e0-e2fc-11ef-bf72-232dd6212056.jpg.webp)

Sir Keir Starmer's plan to make the UK a "world leader" in Artificial
Intelligence (AI) could put already stretched supplies of drinking water under
strain, industry sources have told the BBC.


The giant data centres needed to power AI can require large quantities of
water to prevent them from overheating.


The tech industry says it is developing more efficient cooling systems that
use less water.


But the department for science, innovation and technology said in a statement
it recognised the plants "face sustainability challenges".


The government has committed to the construction of multiple data centres
around the country in an effort to kick start economic growth.


Ministers insist the notoriously power-hungry server farms will be given
priority access to the electricity grid.


Questions have been raised about the impact this might have on the
government's plans for clean energy production by 2030.


But less attention has been given to the impact data centres could have on the
supply of fresh, drinkable water to homes and businesses.


Parts of the UK, in the south especially, are already under threat of water
shortages because of climate change and population growth.


The government is backing plans for nine new reservoirs to ease the risk of
rationing and hosepipe bans during droughts.


But some of these are in areas where new data centres are set to be built.


The first of the government's "AI growth zones" will be in Culham,
Oxfordshire, at the UK Atomic Energy Authority's campus – seven miles from the
site of a planned new reservoir at Abingdon.


The 4.5 sq mile (7 sq km) reservoir will supply customers in the Thames
Valley, London and Hampshire. It is not known how much water the massive new
data centres now planned nearby could take from it.


The BBC understands Thames Water has been talking to the government about the
challenge of water demand in relation to data centres and how it can be
mitigated.


In a new report, the Royal Academy of Engineering calls on the government to
ensure tech companies accurately report how much energy and water their data
centres are using.


It also calls for environmental sustainability requirements for all data
centres, including reducing the use of drinking water, moving to zero use for
cooling.


Without such action, warns one of the report's authors, Prof Tom Rodden, "we
face a real risk that our development, deployment and use of AI could do
irreparable damage to the environment".


The tech industry tends to be cagey about water consumption. Most UK data
centres contacted for this article did not respond to our inquiries.


Data centres use fresh, mains water, rather than surface water, so that the
pipes, pumps and heat exchangers used to cool racks of servers do not get
clogged up with contaminants.


The amount used can vary considerably depending on a number of factors
including the surrounding environment; sites in colder, wetter parts of the
world tend to require less.


Dr Venkatesh Uddameri, a Texas-based expert in water resources management,
says a typical data centre can use between 11 million and 19 million litres of
water per day, roughly the same as a town of 30,000 to 50,000 people.


His widely quoted calculations are based on arid, or semi arid, climates and
do not take into account recent efficiency improvements or developments in AI.


Microsoft's global water use soared by 34% while it was developing its initial
AI tools, and a data centre cluster in Iowa used 6% of the district's water
supply in one month during the training of OpenAI's GPT-4.


Local resistance to data centres is growing around the world, particularly in
areas where water is scarce.


In Chile, Google stopped building a data centre following concerns about its
water use, and it redesigned the cooling system at another in Uruguay
following local protests.


In the UK, Thames Water has warned data centres they could face restrictions
on use during heatwaves.


In 2022, the company said it would review data centres' water use as it
prepared to introduce a hosepipe ban during a summer draught.


But Foxglove, a group of campaigning lawyers, found evidence from Thames
Water's strategy documents the following year that the firm still did not
appear to know how much water its existing data centre customers were using.


Thames Water declined to comment. It signposted its recent five-year plan,
which has been approved by the government.


This states that it has no legal obligation to service businesses, and can
choose to restrict or refuse water to commercial customers; but this was
written before the government designated data centres as Critical National
Infrastructure, meaning they will face fewer planning restrictions.


Thames Water filed an objection to a planning application for a new data
centre in a cluster in Slough, near Reading, in 2021.


But other proposals in the area have since succeeded: for example in August
2024 the firm Yondr announced that it would be building its third data centre
campus there.


Foxglove CEO Martha Dark said: "The government must urgently explain how its
plans for new data centres will not threaten our long-term supplies of
drinking water."


A government spokesperson said: "We recognise that data centres face
sustainability challenges such as energy demands and water use - that's why AI
Growth Zones are designed to attract investment in areas where existing energy
and water infrastructure is already in place."


In addition, recent changes made by the water regulator Ofwat would "unlock
£104bn of spending by water companies" in the next five years.


The data centre industry argues that modern sites are already more efficient.
Alternative cooling methods which do not require much water, such as free air
cooling and dry cooling, are evolving.


Closed-loop cooling, which involves reusing water, will be deployed in
Microsoft's new data centres in Phoenix and Wisconsin.


Aaron Binckley, vice president of sustainability at Digital Realty,
acknowledged criticism around data centres' water usage but claimed that the
sector was making "significant strides".


His company, which has 300 data centres worldwide, is trialling a new AI tool
which analyses operational data and identifies water-saving measures. He says
it is predicted to conserve nearly 4m litres of water per year.


Clearly, that is currently an expectation rather than a reality, but Mr
Binckley says it proves that "AI can drive sustainability as well as
technological progress".


In 2024 the Environment Agency wrote in a blog that by 2050, England alone
would need an extra five billion litres of water every day – it says this is
the equivalent of two million wheelie bins-full – just to serve the
population.


But the regulator now needs more data in order to factor in new data centres'
future needs.


For the time being, it is urging data centres to forecast and plan their water
consumption - and to explore their own sources of water, such as water reuse.


"Meeting the increased water demand is not just for the water industry to
solve," says a source.


Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved.   The BBC is not responsible for
the content of external sites. **Read about our approach to external
linking.**




