# China announces measures against Google, other US firms, as trade tensions escalate

By: Reuters February 4, 2025 15:07 IST

4 min read

  * 
  * 
  * 
  * 
  * 

China said in December it had launched an investigation into Nvidia over a
suspected violation of the country's anti-monopoly law, a probe widely seen as
a retaliatory shot against Washington's latest curbs on the Chinese chip
sector. (File photo)

China on Tuesday announced a wide range of measures targeting U.S. businesses
including Google, farm equipment makers and fashion brand Calvin Klein’s
owner, minutes after additional U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods took effect.

The measures were announced as Beijing also slapped tariffs on some U.S.
products such as coal, gas and electric trucks in a rapid response to the new
duties on Chinese goods imposed by U.S. President Donald Trump, escalating
trade tensions between the world’s two biggest economies.

China’s Commerce Ministry said it had put PVH Corp, the holding company for
brands including Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger, and U.S. biotechnology firm
Illumina on its “unreliable entity” list

Story continues below this ad

It said the two companies took what it called “discriminatory measures against
Chinese enterprises” and “damaged” the legitimate rights and interests of
Chinese companies.

Companies added to the blacklist can be subject to fines and a broad range of
other sanctions, including a freeze on trade and revocation of work permits
for foreign staff.

Separately, China’s State Administration of Market Regulation said Google was
suspected of violating the country’s anti-monopoly law and an investigation
was initiated into the company in accordance with the law. It did provide
further details on the investigation or on what it alleged Google had done to
breach the law.

Google products such as its search engine are blocked in China and its revenue
from there is about 1% of global sales.

Story continues below this ad

In 2017, Google announced the launch of a small artificial intelligence center
in China. But the project was disbanded two years later and the firm does not
conduct AI research in China, according to a blog posting. Google still works
with Chinese partners such as advertisers.

Google, PVH and Illumina did not immediately respond to requests for comment
outside regular U.S. business hours.

PVH had already been under scrutiny from Chinese regulators over “improper”
conduct related to the Xinjiang region.

## TESLA AND FARM EQUIPMENT FIRMS

China’s Finance Ministry also announced 10% tariffs on farm equipment that
could impact U.S. firms such as Caterpillar , Deere & Co and AGCO, as well as
a small number of trucks and big-engine sedans shipped to China from the
United States.

Story continues below this ad

That could apply to Elon Musk’s Cybertruck, a niche offering Tesla has been
promoting in China, as it awaits regulatory clearance to begin sales.

China’s Ministry of Industry and Information technology designated the
Cybertruck as a “passenger car” in a posting in December that was quickly
deleted.

If the Cybertruck was designated as an electric truck, Tesla would face a 10%
tariff on any future imports from its factory in Texas.

Tesla had no immediate comment.

The new tariffs on U.S. products will start on Feb. 10, the ministry said.

Story continues below this ad

The announcements made on Tuesday ramped up trade restrictions between Beijing
and Washington that had been largely limited to the tech sector under the
administration of former U.S. President Joe Biden, which sought to restrict
China’s access to high-end semiconductors.

China said in December it had launched an investigation into Nvidia over a
suspected violation of the country’s anti-monopoly law, a probe widely seen as
a retaliatory shot against Washington’s latest curbs on the Chinese chip
sector.

Intel’s products sold in China were also called for a security review late
last year by an influential Chinese industry group.

  * Tags:
  * donald trump
  * Google
  * US

Latest Comment

Post Comment

Read Comments

Expand

