# Bryan Johnson walks out of Nikhil Kamath podcast over AQI: How does its levels above 100 impact your body?

![Image](https://images.indianexpress.com/2025/02/aqi-1.jpg?w=640)

**Written by Dr Rommel Tickoo**

Many people asked me if tech millionaire and longevity crusader Bryan Johnson
had been biased or not about India while abruptly leaving Zerodha co-founder
Nikhil Kamath’s podcast midway, citing poor air quality in the room as the
reason. According to Johnson, the room’s air quality index (AQI) was 130
(ideally should be 50), with PM2.5 levels at 75 µg/m³ (ideally should be 5 to
15 µg/m³) — roughly equivalent to smoking 3.4 cigarettes a day.

“Air pollution has been so normalised in India that no one even notices
anymore despite the science of its negative effects being well known… No one
wore a mask which can significantly decrease exposure,” he added.

Story continues below this ad

Now, whatever may be his personal reaction, fact of the matter is he has
raised an issue which we should take up seriously and build awareness around.
Most of us in cities like Delhi consider AQI above 100 as normal. But it is
hardly that.

## WHAT DOES AQI OVER 100 MEAN FOR YOU?

The normal AQI for a human body is 50. Any reading between 50 and 100 affects
unusually sensitive people, like infants, the elderly, the immune-compromised
and those already with severe chronic conditions like asthma. While these
groups should avoid prolonged exposure, for everybody else this range makes
for a good day.

When the AQI is above 100, it can affect sensitive groups like children, older
adults, and people with pre-existing lung or heart conditions. These include
symptoms like irritation to the eyes, nose, throat, coughing, wheezing and
chest discomfort.

As the AQI increases further, even healthy individuals can experience these
effects and complain of further symptoms like shortness of breath, irritation
in the eyes, and chest tightness. Other than the groups mentioned above, an
AQI between 101 to 150 is a red flag for children, teenagers, and pregnant
women. This is the range when they should avoid prolonged exposure to the
outdoors or exertion, take up less intense activity, or take more breaks from
it if they cannot avoid it, and watch for coughing or shortness of breath.
Asthmatics must keep nebulisers and inhalers handy in such circumstances.

Story continues below this ad

Also Read | Zero safe zones: No Indian city meets WHO air quality standards, says Lancet study

Needless to say that AQI readings between 151 and 200 can be dangerous for
everyone. Any readings between 201 and 300 should be considered an emergency
when people should just reschedule their activity indoors or to a time when
the pollution load is less. Levels between 300 and 500 are considered
hazardous for the human body.

## HOW PM 2.5 LEVELS AFFECT YOUR HEALTH?

Now AQI is the collective measure of all kinds of pollutants, be it ozone,
particulate matter (PM2.5, PM 10), sulphur dioxide and carbon dioxide. But in
our cities we have higher concentrations of PM 2.5, which is usually found in
smog and industrial emissions.

Due to its tiny size, PM2.5 can easily enter the bloodstream. It has a large
surface area and can carry toxins through breath, reaching the end of the
respiratory tract, penetrating deep into the lungs and corroding their walls
where air exchange happens. The air sacs fill up with inhaled air and the
oxygen from it passes into the blood. Now PM 2.5 also gets absorbed
simultaneously and further damages cell walls, triggering inflammation. And
this we know is associated with heart attacks as plaques get dislodged from
weakened walls.

In children, PM 2.5 can impair lung function as their lungs are still
developing. There is a growing body of evidence linking long-term PM 2.5
exposure to an increased risk of lung cancer as it can change the DNA of cells
and the way they divide.

**PREVENTION MODE ALWAYS**

Story continues below this ad

Given that pollution has also moved indoors, just ventilating by letting fresh
air in isn’t helping us anymore. To reduce PM2.5 in your home, use high
efficiency air filters, and keep windows closed when AQI levels and pollen
levels are high. Keep your pets clean too. Wear masks outdoors. This has to be
a daily drill.

(Dr Rommel Tickoo is director, internal medicine, Max Superspeciality
Hospital, Saket)

