# Premier League: Arsenal hammer Man City 5-1 to stay in title hunt

![Image](https://th-i.thgim.com/public/incoming/5j6wby/article69173902.ece/alternates/LANDSCAPE_1200/2025-02-02T184710Z_250558838_UP1EL221DNMVA_RTRMADP_3_SOCCER-ENGLAND-ARS-MCI-REPORT.JPG)

Arsenal delivered a statement of intent in the Premier League title race with
a 5-1 hammering of champions Manchester City to close the gap at the top to
six points on Sunday (February 2, 2025).

Captain Martin Odegaard fired Arsenal into a second-minute lead and City were
finished off ruthlessly after the break with teenagers Myles Lewis-Skelly and
Ethan Nwaneri both on target for the rampant Gunners.

Erling Haaland's equaliser, his 250th senior career goal, had briefly raised
City's hopes, but they could have no complaints as any lingering hopes of
winning a fifth successive title surely disappeared into the north London
night.

Arsenal are now 14 games unbeaten in the league and have 50 points from 24
games with leaders Liverpool on 56 from 23.

Manchester City are a distant fourth with 41.

Arsenal have been accused of being over-reliant on set-piece goals this season
but on Sunday they played with fluency and flare to rack up their biggest home
win of the league season.

Pep Guardiola, manager of Manchester City, looks dejected as he leaves the pitch after defeat to Arsenal during the Premier League match between Arsenal FC and Manchester City FC at Emirates Stadium on February 2, 2025 | Photo Credit: Getty Images 

Sloppy City gifted Arsenal the lead when Manuel Akanji was put in trouble by
teammate John Stones and was dispossessed before Kai Havertz calmly set up
Odegaard to sweep home from close range despite an attempted block by Stones.

With City at sixes and sevens, Arsenal thought they had made it 2-0 shortly
afterwards when Gabriel Martinelli lifted a shot past Stefan Ortega but was
adjudged to be offside.

City were spared further punishment when they again lost the ball playing out
from the back and Havertz, with the whole goal to aim at, somehow dragged his
shot wide.

Haaland touched the ball only six times in the first half but came alive in
the 55th minute to head in Savinho's cross.

For a moment it looked as though Arsenal's earlier misses might haunt them but
38 seconds after the restart Phil Foden gave the ball away and Thomas Partey's
shot deflected off Stones to leave Ortega with no chance.

With their tails up, Arsenal looked to rub City's noses in the dirt and Lewis-
Skelly took a pass from Declan Rice and curled a shot beyond Ortega for his
first senior goal.

The party was already in full swing when substitute Nwaneri left Ortega for
dead with a sublime finish.

Published \- February 03, 2025 02:50 am IST

Read Comments

  * Copy link 
  * Email 
  * Facebook 
  * Twitter 
  * Telegram 
  * LinkedIn 
  * WhatsApp 
  * Reddit 

READ LATER

Remove  SEE ALL

PRINT

###  Related Topics

soccer

